The Joe Rogan experience.
Well, there was also some pretty heavy moments in the documentary,
the series where you talk about yourself. Yeah.
And you talk about your own experiences as child being raped. Yeah.
Which is it unexpected and very intense.
And
how difficult was that to sort of express on camera?
Well, I'm pretty comfortable talking about that. Um, yeah. About being, yeah.
About being raped when I was seven years old,
but it was relevant to this show because it came up like to your earlier point
about the sort of topics that, or that, that what a dark world, it was up there.
Right. And like, like why, so it's like,
why am I drawn to those kinds of stories and why have I spent so much of my
professional life steeping myself in
dark worlds, criminal subcultures. Right. So that was, that was,
that was why that particular part of my, my life story, I think,
was actually relevant to this, to this series. But to answer your question,
how difficult was it? Not, not very difficult.
It was difficult for me to go public with that story for the first time,
which was in 2004. I mean, I'd lived with it as a secret,
like pretty much my entire life,
but the decision to write about it was that was a very difficult decision,
a very difficult thing to, but between, you know, since then, I've,
I've gotten pretty comfortable talking about it publicly. I mean,
that story's been adapted as a play really, you know,
it's been produced all over the world play. Yeah. Yeah.
It's called stalking the boogieman. Like I wrote a,
I wrote an essay called stalking the boogieman. That's kind of when,
when I went public with that, I was, uh, that I'd been raped when I was seven.
And then I had then planned to kill the guy when I was in my early thirties.
Like that was the subject of the yeah. Of the essay.
And then that was adapted as a play and it was on, you know, uh,
this American life. And so, um,
I've gotten, I've gotten comfortable with, uh,
talking about that over the years. Were you, you.
Were,
you approached by law enforcement when you kind of went public about wanting to
stalk this person, a felon, I.
Arrested. You got arrested. I got arrested really? Yeah. After the, the,
after the, uh, the first essay came out,
the cops cops arrested me because I I'd,
I'd admitted stalking the guy and planning to murder him. I mean,
I'd admitted Tom behavior in, in the, in the piece that was published.
Had the guy ever been prosecuted for what he did to you?
No. No.
He was a juvenile when it happened and also like the statute of limitations.
It happened in Alaska, the statute of limitations expired. And also it's,
you know, it's my word against his, you know, at that point, I mean, so I,
since gone to the police and filed an official police report, um,
but I mean,
I withheld his name in the first piece that I published and I let him know.
Cause I mean, I met with him in person as part of the reporting, if you will,
of that piece, what was that like? Um,
it was a pretty uncomfortable conversation. FA you know,
it was a pretty uncomfortable conversation cause I'd been following the guy for
months, like planning to kill him. And I didn't tell him that when we met,
how old, how old were you at the time? Let's see, I was early thirties,
the 32 33. And how old.
Was he then? How old was he when it.
Happened? He was, he was at the, when it happened, he was in his, uh,
late teens was still, still a juvenile though. So 16, 17.
Um, so he was a bit him in his early forties when I was stalking him.
And then when he and I met and how'd you meet him?
How'd you arrange it? Well.
I sent him a letter. I sent him a letter, uh,
like I sent him a register mail letter, a FedEx letter. And, uh,
I just made sure he was gonna get this letter and that I knew he'd gotten it.
And there was a couple reasons for that one is by that time I had planned to
publish this essay and just for like legal reasons needed to let
him know that this was, I needed to give him a chance to comment. Okay.
Even though in the letter,
I didn't tell him that I was planning to write the piece. I was just like,
listen, I remember what happened and you and I need to meet. Okay.
And if you don't respond this letter,
I'm gonna show up on your doorstep and have a conversation with your wife.
So he responded like pretty quickly and we a meeting,
uh,
at a restaurant and then I switched up the location several times and we met on
the 16th street mall. Why did you switch.
Up the locations?
I thought he might be dangerous. You know, that's just like basic sort of,
but you still met him.
Like, I don't understand. What is the purpose of switching up.
The location? I didn't want him to be able to set up on the location at all.
I didn't want him to have other people waiting for me there or, or if Tim and,
and I, Frank,
I just wanted to keep him off balance the entire day so that he would be,
he wouldn't, he wouldn't have a possibility to sort of arrange anything.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> okay. So we met on the 16th street mall,
which is pedestrian mall in, in downtown Denver. And, um,
yeah, I just, yeah, I mean, that experience obviously is,
is <laugh> branded my memory pretty clearly. You're a big.
Guy, Uhhuh <affirmative> what is he a big guy as well?
Not really. No. I mean, he was a lot bigger than me when I was seven. Of course.
You know,
that was one of the first things that crossed my mind is I could just dismantle
this guy. Right. Uh, but we just,
we walked around the block a couple times and I had you talked while you were
walking talked. Yeah. And I had a,
I had a hidden recording device and a bike courier bag and a pistol,
uh, that I was carrying. Were you.
Still thinking about killing.
Them? I knew I couldn't get away with it. See, I, I, I,
I planned to get away with it. I think I would've gotten away with it.
What did he say?
He apologized. He apologized and, you know,
he said that, um, you know, that he'd been,
that he'd been sexually assaulted when he was a kid, but it,
which is one of the most infuriating things to me when child molesters or let's
call, 'em what they are,
men who rape children when they put that out there as an excuse
or a rationalization or a reason for the behavior, because, uh,
that just infuriates me. But he apologized,
he said that it happened to him when he was a kid.
And he swore that it had only happened with me,
that I was the only person that he'd raped when that person was a child right up
in like repeatedly. And, um, I,
I had been going back and forth on naming him in that essay.
And I,
his telling me that it, I was the only one
in the end. I decided not to name him, like up to when, again, to that point of,
they have to take the story away from me. It was like, we,
we were just like an hour from the print deadline.
And I still didn't know whether I was gonna name him and my editor,
Patty Calhoun at the westward. She was like,
just go block yourself in a room for 30 minutes, write both endings.
And then just, we just gotta pick one man,
just like go with whichever one feels. Right.
So I wrote one ending that ended with his name and one ending that ended with
how the essay actually ends,
which is not naming him and him just sort of disappearing and in the crowd on
the mall and went with that one, that one felt right.
It felt like a better ending. And it also, um, it,
it kind of spoke to a point that I wanna make,
which is that they could be anybody, you know? And, uh,
I also wanted to give, wanted to give him the benefit of the doubt.
Wow. You're a good man. That's a,
a power powerful thing to be able to forgive someone for such a horrific act.
I'm not sure I had forgiven him well.
Enough to not name him. Yeah.
That's just to give him that that's a lot
catch new episodes that Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog J O R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.